Hey guys in the last part we went ahead and created the theme and added the header or the nav bar so
all this stuff up here is now dynamic and integrated with wordpress.
But this is all just static aged him now.
All right.
So let's go back to our index ph page and go down to where we have this container content div.
And we have these different blog posts.
All right so what are we going to do here is the No.
We have 3 article tags with blog post I'm going to delete two out of the three so that one and that
one.
All right.
And then I'm just going to cut this these paragraphs down or remove that one and make this one much
shorter.
Just so we can get it all in the in the page or in view
.
OK.
So this div is close to that.
So what we want to do is write in this main block div we want to create a post loop.
All right so first thing we'll do is check for posts.
We're going to say if we have posts
and then we're going to end it after the ending article tag.
OK so if there are posts actually we'll put in else as well.
And if there isn't then we're going to say p p Teko we're going to use the WP Otto P function and then
and here we can put the text that we want we'll just say sorry
no posts are found.
All right.
And then up here we're going to create our while loops so it's Gouraud here.
Open up ph P and put in a while loop.
All right.
We're going to say while I have posts.
And then we want to go and put a colon here and say the underscore post just like that and then down
under the article tag we're going to end that Waialua.
OK.
So it's going to loop through the post and for every one it finds it's going to spit this out.
All right.
Now we need to make this dynamic.
Now for the title what we can do is say ph P the title
K and for the matter I'm going to just leave the matter for now.
I just want to test it out.
So let's go ahead and just replace this paragraph right here with PH P with the contents.
All right we'll save that.
And let's go and reload.
OK so let's see we're on the About page let's go back to the home page which we don't have a link for
.
All right.
And we also want this to go to the home page if I click on it takes us to index each team.
So let's fix that.
We're going to go up here where we have this linked to index each team out.
We're going to replace that o c p p u r l and we'll pass in slash case.
OK so now we go and relo we click on here
is happening.
All right.
So we have to echo it.
OK.
So if we look at these posts we get blog posts one blog post to.
Now you probably don't have these posts.
You probably have the hello world if that's showing up then that's fine.
All right if you want to match your content to mine just go ahead and create two posts one blog posts
one I just have some sample content and then blog post to.
I also have some categories.
If you want to create some categories does it really matter what they are.
Not really we're not really dealing with the specific content.
It's just it's just for a sample content really.
All right so the meta info right here is still static and so is the button.
If I click that it doesn't do anything so let's go ahead and fix that.
So back in our post loop Let's go to where we have P.
Class Matter and was going to separate this a little bit
K because we need to make some of this stuff dynamic.
All right.
So the date and time right here let's get rid of that and then we're going to put in ph P and there
is a couple of things you could use the date but I want to be more specific and have the date and time
so I'm going to use the time.
All right so if we just keep it like that let's see what it gives us.
OK so it gives us just the time 405 PM.
So I want the data as well so what I want to do is we can format this however we want to I just adding
some parameters.
All right.
So we want J.
We want the year.
And then we want the time C G call.
OK.
And this pertains to the parameters of the date function.
All right and if you don't know how to format the time you can go to PH P dot net and just search for
the date function and that should give you all of the formatting options.
All right but we're going to do it like that because now if I reload.
It's going to say the date.
OK the month the day the year and then also the time.
OK.
So that takes care of that.
Now we also want the user name of the user that created the post so for that we can just put in ph P
the offer
.
And if we go ahead and reload you can see we still get admen because that's the actual user's name.
Now we want to be able to click on this name and then have it bring us to all the posts archived from
that user.
OK so that's pretty easy to do as well we just want to put a link around this.
OK and then the link then is say HP Acco
get author posts you are Al.
And then there we're going to pass in get
get the author meta and then just pass in ID.
All right so let's save that and then if we can see that it's now a link we can't see it will have to
change to.
CSS If I click on it it takes us to whatever that user name is author slash author slash and then the
name and it'll show you all the posts from that user.
Let's go into the CSSA real quick and see where we have our meta class which is where is it right here
.
OK so let's grab that
and we're going to just add on.
OK.
And then all set color to what increase.
Now that's fixed.
Now we can also get the categories that the post is in and we can put those on here as well.
So let's go back to the index and we're going to go with C we're going to go right after the ending
a tag of what we just did of the author and let's just put in a pipe character and then open up some
ph p tags
actually before the speech tags we're going to say posted in.
And then we want all the categories.
All right.
So there's quite a bit of code we need to do here to get this how we want.
First thing we're going to set a category's variable.
We're going to set it to get the category.
OK.
Now what that's going to do is it's going to give us an array of categories that this post is in.
All right now we can't just take the array and display it so we have to loop through it.
So before we do that let's create a variable and we're going to call this separator.
All right.
And we want them to be separate separated by a comma and a space.
So we're going to put that and then we're going to initialize a variable called output or just set it
to nothing for now.
All right so now what we need to do is check for categories.
OK so say if categories then we want to use a For Each loop.
OK we're going to say for each category as
I'm sorry categories as category.
All right.
And then here we're going to just append to that output variable.
So to append we can use dot equals.
OK.
Now each category is going to have a link as well.
So let's say a graph.
OK we're going to have to do so a little bit of concatenation here.
So we'll use dots and then we're going to say get category's link and we need to pass in a parameter
.
We're going to say katak can take that category variable and call term underscore ID right and then
we'll go back into our string.
Ok so we want to go right after the double quote here and then we're going to concatenate again.
And we're going to say category can't underscore name.
Ok then we want our closing a tag
in let's see we're also going to add on
the concatenation gets a little confusing.
Here we want a separator.
All right.
And then down after the if statement here.
We're just going to echo and I'm going to wrap this in the trim function.
Make it a little neater when I say output and then the second parameter will be the separator.
Right so let's save that and see what we get.
OK so now you see it says posted in business.
This one is posted in Uncategorized.
Now if I click business it takes us to category's slash business and you can see only this post is here
.
This is the only one in business.
OK so that's working perfectly.
Now the last thing we want to do is we want this text to be shorter.
And we also want the read more button to work.
So what we can do is go where we put the content and to make it shorter we can just change it to the
excerpt.
All right and if we look at that now we have much shorter task now by default.
I think it's 55
55 words but we can change that if we want to go to functions ph
.
That's a function
excerpt length and all we need to do here is just return a number let's say we wanted 25 and then we
just need to create a filter.
We're going to say add filter K add action means you're adding something.
Add filter means you're changing something.
OK.
So we want excerpt length between actually you know what let's call this set X or length.
And we'll also add our prefix of EDV.
All right.
And then we can actually just take that.
Put that here a save it and reload.
And now you can see we get 25 right now for the read more to work.
That's pretty easy.
We're going to go down to where we have the link and we just want to in here save P
the permalink.
OK then we'll go and reload.
Click on the read more.
That brings us to that particular post.
Now this obviously isn't what we want we want.
All the content here we're going to add comment form and all that good stuff but we're going to get
to that later.
K we have to actually create a separate template for that.
So in the next video we'll do that also show you how we can add a featured image to our posts as well
.
All right so I'll see you in the next video.